Makes: 1-1/2 cups

Ingredients

2 raw green mangoes (approximately 1 cup grated)
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon turmeric powder
1-1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon chilli powder (or more if you want it more spicy)
1 teaspoon roasted cumin seeds, crushed
Method

Wash the mangoes and dry them completely. Peel the skin of the mangoes and then grate them. Combine the grated mangoes, salt and turmeric powder and leave aside for 2 hours. Once the mangoes have been marinated you will find that the mango has given out some water. At this point stir in the sugar little by little to the mango mixture continuously until all the sugar is nearly dissolved. There are two different ways you can make this pickle.

Sun Method: Place the mango mixture in the steel vessel with a rim. Wrap the vessel with muslin or cheesecloth and tie it with a thick thread/lace to fit tightly around the vessel. Keep it under sunlight for about 7 days or until the sugar and jaggery melts and reaches a double string consistency, stirring it well at the end of every day. Bring it back inside once the sun sets. Stir well the next morning and place it under the sun again. Continue this process until the double string consistency has been reached.

Stove top method: Heat a heavy bottomed pan on low heat; add the mango and sugar mixture to the pan and stir continuously until the sugar has dissolved completely. You will find bubbles frothing up on the surface, but continue stirring until the sugar syrup reaches the single string consistency. This step is crucial as over-cooking will make the sugar crystallize later. Remove from the flame and let the mixture cool completely. Continue stirring while it is cooling occasionally to prevent the sugar from crystallizing. 

Once cooled completely, stir in the chilli powder and crushed cumin seeds until well combined into the pickle. The pickle can be consumed immediately. Store the Chundo in sterilized glass jars and it will last for about one year without refrigeration.

Tip: Make sure, the mangoes you use are sour mangoes and are very raw, they should not have the yellowish pulp, but have a greenish pulp; the more raw the mangoes the longer the shelf life.